# lance-catalog-apache-client

Lance REST Catalog Specification

- API version: 0.0.1

- Generator version: 7.12.0

**Lance Catalog** is an open specification on top of the storage-based Lance open table and data format  to standardize access to a collection of Lance tables. It describes how a catalog service like Apache Hive MetaStore (HMS), Apache Gravitino, Unity Catalog, etc. should store and use Lance tables, as well as how ML/AI tools and analytics compute engines (will together be called _\"tools\"_ in this document) should integrate with Lance.
A Lance catalog is a centralized repository for discovering, organizing, and managing Lance tables. It is a generalized concept that is also called namespace, metastore, database, schema in other similar systems. A Lance catalog can either contain a list of tables, or contain a list of Lance catalogs recursively.
In an enterprise environment, typically there is a requirement to store tables in a catalog service  such as Apache Hive MetaStore, Apache Gravitino, Unity Catalog, etc.  for more advanced governance features around access control, auditing, lineage tracking, etc. **Lance REST catalog** is a standardized OpenAPI protocol to read, write and manage Lance tables.



*Automatically generated by the [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech)*

## Requirements

Building the API client library requires:

1. Java 1.8+
2. Maven/Gradle

## Installation

To install the API client library to your local Maven repository, simply execute:

```shell
mvn clean install
```

To deploy it to a remote Maven repository instead, configure the settings of the repository and execute:

```shell
mvn clean deploy
```

Refer to the [OSSRH Guide](http://central.sonatype.org/pages/ossrh-guide.html) for more information.

### Maven users

Add this dependency to your project's POM:

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.lancedb</groupId>
  <artifactId>lance-catalog-apache-client</artifactId>
  <version>0.0.1</version>
  <scope>compile</scope>
</dependency>
```

### Gradle users

Add this dependency to your project's build file:

```groovy
compile "com.lancedb:lance-catalog-apache-client:0.0.1"
```

### Others

At first generate the JAR by executing:

```shell
mvn clean package
```

Then manually install the following JARs:

- `target/lance-catalog-apache-client-0.0.1.jar`
- `target/lib/*.jar`

## Getting Started

Please follow the [installation](#installation) instruction and execute the following Java code:

```java

import com.lancedb.lance.catalog.client.apache.*;
import com.lancedb.lance.catalog.client.apache.auth.*;
import com.lancedb.lance.catalog.client.apache.model.*;
import com.lancedb.lance.catalog.client.apache.api.CatalogApi;

public class CatalogApiExample {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        ApiClient defaultClient = Configuration.getDefaultApiClient();
        defaultClient.setBasePath("http://localhost:2333");
        
        CatalogApi apiInstance = new CatalogApi(defaultClient);
        String catalog = "catalog_example"; // String | An identifier of the catalog.
        String catalogDelimiter = "."; // String | The delimiter used by the catalog identifier
        try {
            apiInstance.catalogExists(catalog, catalogDelimiter);
        } catch (ApiException e) {
            System.err.println("Exception when calling CatalogApi#catalogExists");
            System.err.println("Status code: " + e.getCode());
            System.err.println("Reason: " + e.getResponseBody());
            System.err.println("Response headers: " + e.getResponseHeaders());
            e.printStackTrace();
        }
    }
}

```

## Documentation for API Endpoints

All URIs are relative to *http://localhost:2333*

Class | Method | HTTP request | Description
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
*CatalogApi* | [**catalogExists**](docs/CatalogApi.md#catalogExists) | **HEAD** /v1/catalogs/{catalog} | Check if a catalog exists
*CatalogApi* | [**createCatalog**](docs/CatalogApi.md#createCatalog) | **POST** /v1/catalogs | Create a new catalog. A catalog can manage either a collection of child catalogs, or a collection of tables. There are three modes when trying to create a catalog to differentiate the behavior when a catalog of the same name already exists:   * CREATE: the operation fails with 400.   * EXIST_OK: the operation succeeds and the existing catalog is kept.   * OVERWRITE: the existing catalog is dropped and a new empty catalog with this name is created. 
*CatalogApi* | [**dropCatalog**](docs/CatalogApi.md#dropCatalog) | **DELETE** /v1/catalogs/{catalog} | Drop a catalog. The catalog must be empty.
*CatalogApi* | [**getCatalog**](docs/CatalogApi.md#getCatalog) | **GET** /v1/catalogs/{catalog} | Get information about a catalog
*CatalogApi* | [**listCatalogs**](docs/CatalogApi.md#listCatalogs) | **GET** /v1/catalogs | List all direct child catalogs of the root catalog. 
*TableApi* | [**getTable**](docs/TableApi.md#getTable) | **GET** /v1/tables/{table} | Get a table from the catalog
*TableApi* | [**registerTable**](docs/TableApi.md#registerTable) | **POST** /v1/catalogs/{catalog}/register | Register an existing table in the given catalog. 
*TableApi* | [**tableExists**](docs/TableApi.md#tableExists) | **HEAD** /v1/tables/{table} | Check if a table exists


## Documentation for Models

 - [CreateCatalogRequest](docs/CreateCatalogRequest.md)
 - [CreateCatalogResponse](docs/CreateCatalogResponse.md)
 - [ErrorResponse](docs/ErrorResponse.md)
 - [GetCatalogResponse](docs/GetCatalogResponse.md)
 - [GetTableResponse](docs/GetTableResponse.md)
 - [ListCatalogsResponse](docs/ListCatalogsResponse.md)
 - [RegisterTableRequest](docs/RegisterTableRequest.md)


<a id="documentation-for-authorization"></a>
## Documentation for Authorization

Endpoints do not require authorization.


## Recommendation

It's recommended to create an instance of `ApiClient` per thread in a multithreaded environment to avoid any potential issues.

## Author



