# lance-catalog-urllib3-client
**Lance Catalog** is an open specification on top of the storage-based Lance open table and data format  to standardize access to a collection of Lance tables. It describes how a catalog service like Apache Hive MetaStore (HMS), Apache Gravitino, Unity Catalog, etc. should store and use Lance tables, as well as how ML/AI tools and analytics compute engines (will together be called _\"tools\"_ in this document) should integrate with Lance.
A Lance catalog is a centralized repository for discovering, organizing, and managing Lance tables. It is a generalized concept that is also called namespace, metastore, database, schema in other similar systems. A Lance catalog can either contain a list of tables, or contain a list of Lance catalogs recursively.
In an enterprise environment, typically there is a requirement to store tables in a catalog service  such as Apache Hive MetaStore, Apache Gravitino, Unity Catalog, etc.  for more advanced governance features around access control, auditing, lineage tracking, etc. **Lance REST catalog** is a standardized OpenAPI protocol to read, write and manage Lance tables.


This Python package is automatically generated by the [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech) project:

- API version: 0.0.1
- Package version: 0.0.1
- Generator version: 7.12.0
- Build package: org.openapitools.codegen.languages.PythonClientCodegen

## Requirements.

Python 3.8+

## Installation & Usage
### pip install

If the python package is hosted on a repository, you can install directly using:

```sh
pip install git+https://github.com/GIT_USER_ID/GIT_REPO_ID.git
```
(you may need to run `pip` with root permission: `sudo pip install git+https://github.com/GIT_USER_ID/GIT_REPO_ID.git`)

Then import the package:
```python
import lance_catalog_urllib3_client
```

### Setuptools

Install via [Setuptools](http://pypi.python.org/pypi/setuptools).

```sh
python setup.py install --user
```
(or `sudo python setup.py install` to install the package for all users)

Then import the package:
```python
import lance_catalog_urllib3_client
```

### Tests

Execute `pytest` to run the tests.

## Getting Started

Please follow the [installation procedure](#installation--usage) and then run the following:

```python

import lance_catalog_urllib3_client
from lance_catalog_urllib3_client.rest import ApiException
from pprint import pprint

# Defining the host is optional and defaults to http://localhost:2333
# See configuration.py for a list of all supported configuration parameters.
configuration = lance_catalog_urllib3_client.Configuration(
    host = "http://localhost:2333"
)



# Enter a context with an instance of the API client
with lance_catalog_urllib3_client.ApiClient(configuration) as api_client:
    # Create an instance of the API class
    api_instance = lance_catalog_urllib3_client.CatalogApi(api_client)
    catalog = 'catalog_example' # str | An identifier of the catalog.
    catalog_delimiter = '.' # str | The delimiter used by the catalog identifier (optional) (default to '.')

    try:
        # Check if a catalog exists
        api_instance.catalog_exists(catalog, catalog_delimiter=catalog_delimiter)
    except ApiException as e:
        print("Exception when calling CatalogApi->catalog_exists: %s\n" % e)

```

## Documentation for API Endpoints

All URIs are relative to *http://localhost:2333*

Class | Method | HTTP request | Description
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
*CatalogApi* | [**catalog_exists**](docs/CatalogApi.md#catalog_exists) | **HEAD** /v1/catalogs/{catalog} | Check if a catalog exists
*CatalogApi* | [**create_catalog**](docs/CatalogApi.md#create_catalog) | **POST** /v1/catalogs | Create a new catalog. A catalog can manage either a collection of child catalogs, or a collection of tables. There are three modes when trying to create a catalog to differentiate the behavior when a catalog of the same name already exists:   * CREATE: the operation fails with 400.   * EXIST_OK: the operation succeeds and the existing catalog is kept.   * OVERWRITE: the existing catalog is dropped and a new empty catalog with this name is created. 
*CatalogApi* | [**drop_catalog**](docs/CatalogApi.md#drop_catalog) | **DELETE** /v1/catalogs/{catalog} | Drop a catalog. The catalog must be empty.
*CatalogApi* | [**get_catalog**](docs/CatalogApi.md#get_catalog) | **GET** /v1/catalogs/{catalog} | Get information about a catalog
*CatalogApi* | [**list_catalogs**](docs/CatalogApi.md#list_catalogs) | **GET** /v1/catalogs | List all direct child catalogs of the root catalog. 
*TableApi* | [**get_table**](docs/TableApi.md#get_table) | **GET** /v1/tables/{table} | Get a table from the catalog
*TableApi* | [**register_table**](docs/TableApi.md#register_table) | **POST** /v1/catalogs/{catalog}/register | Register an existing table in the given catalog. 
*TableApi* | [**table_exists**](docs/TableApi.md#table_exists) | **HEAD** /v1/tables/{table} | Check if a table exists


## Documentation For Models

 - [CreateCatalogRequest](docs/CreateCatalogRequest.md)
 - [CreateCatalogResponse](docs/CreateCatalogResponse.md)
 - [ErrorResponse](docs/ErrorResponse.md)
 - [GetCatalogResponse](docs/GetCatalogResponse.md)
 - [GetTableResponse](docs/GetTableResponse.md)
 - [ListCatalogsResponse](docs/ListCatalogsResponse.md)
 - [RegisterTableRequest](docs/RegisterTableRequest.md)


<a id="documentation-for-authorization"></a>
## Documentation For Authorization

Endpoints do not require authorization.


## Author




