# Rust API client for lance-catalog-reqwest-client

**Lance Catalog Specification** is an open specification on top of the storage-based Lance open table and data format  to standardize access to a collection of Lance tables (a.k.a. Lance datasets). It describes how a catalog service like Apache Hive MetaStore (HMS), Apache Gravitino, Unity Catalog, etc. should store and use Lance tables, as well as how ML/AI tools and analytics compute engines (will together be called _\"tools\"_ in this document) should integrate with Lance tables.
A Lance catalog is a centralized repository for discovering, organizing, and managing Lance tables. It can either contain a collection of tables, or a collection of Lance catalogs recursively. It is designed to encapsulates concepts like namespace, metastore, database, schema, etc. that could appear in other similar systems, so that it can better integrate with any system with any type of object hierarchy.
In an enterprise environment, typically there is a requirement to store tables in a catalog service  such as Apache Hive MetaStore, Apache Gravitino, Unity Catalog, etc.  for more advanced governance features around access control, auditing, lineage tracking, etc. **Lance REST catalog** is an OpenAPI protocol that enables reading, writing and managing Lance tables by connecting those catalog services or building a custom catalog server in a standardized way.



## Overview

This API client was generated by the [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech) project.  By using the [openapi-spec](https://openapis.org) from a remote server, you can easily generate an API client.

- API version: 0.0.1
- Package version: 0.0.1
- Generator version: 7.12.0
- Build package: `org.openapitools.codegen.languages.RustClientCodegen`

## Installation

Put the package under your project folder in a directory named `lance-catalog-reqwest-client` and add the following to `Cargo.toml` under `[dependencies]`:

```
lance-catalog-reqwest-client = { path = "./lance-catalog-reqwest-client" }
```

## Documentation for API Endpoints

All URIs are relative to *http://localhost:2333*

Class | Method | HTTP request | Description
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
*CatalogApi* | [**catalog_exists**](docs/CatalogApi.md#catalog_exists) | **HEAD** /v1/catalogs/{catalog} | Check if a catalog exists
*CatalogApi* | [**create_catalog**](docs/CatalogApi.md#create_catalog) | **POST** /v1/catalogs | Create a new catalog. A catalog can manage either a collection of child catalogs, or a collection of tables. There are three modes when trying to create a catalog to differentiate the behavior when a catalog of the same name already exists:   * CREATE: the operation fails with 400.   * EXIST_OK: the operation succeeds and the existing catalog is kept.   * OVERWRITE: the existing catalog is dropped and a new empty catalog with this name is created. 
*CatalogApi* | [**drop_catalog**](docs/CatalogApi.md#drop_catalog) | **DELETE** /v1/catalogs/{catalog} | Drop a catalog. The catalog must be empty.
*CatalogApi* | [**get_catalog**](docs/CatalogApi.md#get_catalog) | **GET** /v1/catalogs/{catalog} | Get information about a catalog
*CatalogApi* | [**list_catalogs**](docs/CatalogApi.md#list_catalogs) | **GET** /v1/catalogs | List all direct child catalogs of the root catalog. 
*TableApi* | [**get_table**](docs/TableApi.md#get_table) | **GET** /v1/tables/{table} | Get a table from the catalog
*TableApi* | [**register_table**](docs/TableApi.md#register_table) | **POST** /v1/table/register | Register an existing table in the given catalog. 
*TableApi* | [**table_exists**](docs/TableApi.md#table_exists) | **HEAD** /v1/tables/{table} | Check if a table exists


## Documentation For Models

 - [CreateCatalogRequest](docs/CreateCatalogRequest.md)
 - [CreateCatalogResponse](docs/CreateCatalogResponse.md)
 - [ErrorResponse](docs/ErrorResponse.md)
 - [GetCatalogResponse](docs/GetCatalogResponse.md)
 - [GetTableResponse](docs/GetTableResponse.md)
 - [ListCatalogsResponse](docs/ListCatalogsResponse.md)
 - [RegisterTableRequest](docs/RegisterTableRequest.md)


To get access to the crate's generated documentation, use:

```
cargo doc --open
```

## Author



